johnhill: Thereby
johnhill: 50,000 recordings of this.
johnhill: Do you think you do it?
johnhill: Do you want me to hop in and say, Hey, that would be cool.
johnhill: Yeah, pop over. I could do 2 min of otherwise you should have me come out to that class level
johnhill: for real a hundred percent. Do it. Yeah, I love students. Yeah.
johnhill: I'm unmute. Yeah.
johnhill: I am not muted. Yeah, actually, if somebody can manage, keep an eye on chat, that'd be great.
johnhill: Ask questions away. It's like you're in the room.
Let's get your attention
johnhill: alright, so I'll let Neil Intro down hold on a second. But I just wanna say, don't all over the world teaching founders on our how do you utilize our text, our network as well as teaching other people all about power of the network about tech stars, how to apply tech stars. We changed his plan to founder on today, just to be here in person. So let's just give a round of applause.
johnhill: How long have you been?
johnhill: Yeah, I put a caveat on that. I think Brad and David have more connections than I do. But I. So I have probably given
johnhill: 1,500 talks on behalf of Texas in the last 9 years.
johnhill: somewhere in person here.
johnhill: No other time will there be a schedule for program takeoff
johnhill: where they'll have founder time that we can run. So tomorrow's founders on next week program starts. They're the Inaugural Bay area like 10 start programs. So they have a unique opportunity. So I'm curious to get this talk through a new lens of all your interconnectedness all over the world.
johnhill: And how these Bay Area founders cannot take advantage of both Dominican and going into Kickoff. Are you doing 3 programs at once? Yes.
johnhill: super impressive.
johnhill: Alright, thank you, Bud, alright, and, as Neil says, like we've been interconnected. How long you been here for Neil?
johnhill:  4 years, 4 years. So you and I have probably hung out in
johnhill: like 6 or 7 different states doing different things around the. And so one of the things I love about Neil is he's cut from this cloth of kind of a the longevity of the Chicago program. And so Troy Hannakoff, who's just a legend in the space, started a company called Accelerate Labs.
johnhill: which was modeled after tech stars, and then Texas ended up acquiring. It became Techsou. Chicago. Troy became yeah. Troy became the Md.
johnhill: Troy was a faculty member for Neil way back in the day, and so like. You see how all these things intertwine and interconnect. It's just like
johnhill: awesome and he is among the most amazing people with that talk that you'll ever say so. But anyway, Neil, you're awesome. So I would do this for you? So I have one ground rules, a speaker. I'm highly interruptable. So if you have any questions as we go along, I asked, you're not gonna throw me off, I promise.
This is the 240 ninth time. And I guess with 2 programs, 200 fiftieth time that I I've given this talk power the network since I've been at tech stars.
johnhill: So yeah. So I I, it's kinda crazy. So I
johnhill: I am I currently the evangelist, which is like a fancy term for storyteller but my first 7 years at Tech Star, so is the VPN network. So my role was to build out the relational network for techstars, cross connect founders, mentors, investors, community leaders, corporate partners the event that you're about to stumble into I was in charge of the first 8 when I came on board. I did 4 in the Us. And 4 in Europe.
johnhill: I. And so you're about to walk into the physical manifestation of this network? I would leverage the hell out of it if I were you. Every interaction is, gonna be a good interaction. It'll be a room full of really incredible human beings. So lean into that when you get the chance it. You are the first group. I think that is doing a pre accelerator experience and found a gun. I and I actually had my first experience with tech stars that found account as well. I flew in in 2,013 to, ironically enough, Chicago
johnhill: to meet with David Cohen, Dave brown Mark Solomon was a head of our investment, and Ari Newman, who was in our first program, the third exit out of tech stars to talk about how to build out a alumni network for a venture capital organization which was super unique at that time.
johnhill: But that was Foundicon, Chicago way back in the day. So like I've had this kind of longitudinal connection. To this I, as Neil was saying, I do fly a lot. I actually jumped on a plane from Boston this morning. So I had the 6 h, 6 and a half hour flight here, up bright and early in the morning presenting to you. And then I'm gonna be with the team helping put together. Found account with you for the next
johnhill: few days. So it's gonna be a busy 3 or 4 day run starting the first full week in September I was in Abu Dhabi in Dubai
johnhill: speaking to our network catalyst program there. The week after I was in Miami, La San Diego, Fort Worth, Chicago, and Buffalo, speaking to programs and startup weeks. Then I was in Louville, Kentucky, for kickoff of Startup week, then Amsterdam, and then London. I I'm here now next week I am in let's see, I fly out to Seattle. I speak at U University, Washington, and the Seattle program.
johnhill: Then I head out to Minneapolis, doing a half day, kind of employee. Retreat, drive down to Tulsa, speak there, and University of Tulsa. Fly to Detroit, speak there in University of Michigan.
johnhill: and then I head to New York and speak to 2 of our programs there. And it just keeps rolling from there. In fact. I'll be back in San Francisco in 2 weeks speaking@uhinside.com. Which is Jason Calcanis is meet your meet our funds. So it's a reverse pitch to startups, 8,000 startups, and Neil and I will be in front of the audience for that, which is kinda cool.
See better
johnhill: I am, and my wife is an absolute saint. II wouldn't be able to do what I do without her, and I so and my my sons are older now, so it makes it a little bit easier. The senior in high school and I have a 23 year old, so kind of like on the back end of that. So. But I when I think about this network and kind of that journey, and I tie it to like outcomes that I want all of you to take out of this talk
johnhill: number one. I'm a huge believer in this kind of concept and thought process of building a network before you need it. So it's there. When you do I'll talk a little bit in depth of you know how that is put into practice for all of you as founders. But I was director of Alumni care services at Michigan State University when last recession hit.
johnhill: and I. We had 260,000 alumni in the State. The vast majority of them were connected to the automotive industry either directly or indirectly, and when the automotive industry drove off the cliff and literally did people had to reinvent themselves. What I found was the vast majority of people who are in automotive, built their networks on automotive.
johnhill: talked about their Cbn resume and automotive terms. Really, anything that they did with automotive was outside of any other vertical.
johnhill: And so when they had to find jobs elsewhere, they hadn't built their network before they needed it. So it's there when they do for all of you best corollary, for that is, if your first connection within an investor is asking for money, you failed.
And so I'm gonna teach you a framework on how to build a network effectively, to identify
johnhill: and mobilize investors, support, help you out. So the second thing I prior to Texas, I worked a
johnhill: company. Some of you may have heard before called Linkedin.
johnhill: I actually lived in Menlo Park. Worked at a Mountain View 2029 Sterling court. If any of you are familiar with that area, and I my office my cubicle was right across from Reed Hoffman's offices. At the time Reid was writing a book called the Startup Review. You wanted to showcase how you could navigate relational capital to create opportunity for yourself through the job search.
johnhill: And what he taught me was the importance of building a quality relational network, not a quantity relational network. And like, I'll give you like one of the surprises. You just walk into the best affiliate network I've ever seen in my life, which is why I've stayed here almost a decade. Third, and this is the most important for me. This is why I get on plans again and again and again, and II help entrepreneurs within Texas and outside of Texas. So I'm speaking all the time to entrepreneurs.
johnhill:  you are among the most amazing people on the planet, and I can say that about. You. Don't say that about yourself. That's just weird. But you are amazing human beings. And I, this is a credibility. Lens to get into or organization like this. You have this uncanny ability to spend disbelief and do something that nobody else in the world has done, or do something better. That's a gift, and I I've also received a gift. Having given this talk 250 times and over the course of 9 years, I've witnessed people in rooms like this go public.
johnhill: I've witnessed people in rooms like this get acquired for 1 billion Us. Dollars. I have literally seen that journey in my journey at tech stars. So for all of you like, I just want you to continue to dream big. Utilize this as a prevailer. Those dreams. I'll showcase some of the tools what we have for you as I go through this presentation. But just know you know, like we've seen this journey to fruition.
johnhill: And I, you know I we want you to continue to push as far forward as you can cause. What you're about to do is one of the hardest things in the world. I built my company in the mid nineties. One of the reasons I do this is, there was no startup community at that time II made every mistake you could absolutely make, like every single mistake.
johnhill: And now that you have communities like this, you can lean into it to make sure that you can continue on that path to wherever you want to take this. So but for I'm not gonna have a ton of time
to whoops. There you go. I'm not gonna have a ton of time to meet with you after here. I actually have an appointment at 4 that I go to jump out
johnhill: when I finish this talk. But II do. Wanna set up time when you're in program at some point to meet one on one if you're interested, and what I'll do is talk about how to navigate the relational network here. To satiate whatever you're doing so like, how do you navigate this in your eyes and your company eyes? So I'm john.hill@texars.com on X threads. Instagram. I'm at Texas. Probably every future social
johnhill: I'm easy to find on any of those I'm John Hill on Linkedin. If you can't find me on there you're not looking, I promise I'm it should be the easiest human for you to find within the techs network there.
johnhill: The characterize me is, I'm like more in frame and Shawshank redemption. I'm the guy who can get you things. Textures is my prison yard. Probably where the analogy falls out a little bit, but I'm good person to know. I know the network inside and out, and happy to help you through the relationships that I have navigate it. So when I came on board, or when I went to Chicago in 2,013, I was actually working for Linkedin, going out to London to speak from San Francisco, and stopped in Chicago to pitch
johnhill: those folks about how to build out an effective relational network for the organization. And it was kinda novel what they were talking about like, how do you tie
johnhill: A motion to a transactional experience or historically transactional experience like venture capital. And so I modeled it after how I would build a university alumni network that was actually worthwhile
johnhill: like, how does it support time, talent, treasure, and for you, how does it support your primary needs? Funding, talent, customer, acquisition, knowledge, share mentorship? And so that was the structure that I laid out for them at that time. There were only 4 accelerators, and I remember the conversation clearly. Only 4 accelerators at techstars at that time, or 5 David Cohen sat across from me and said, I think we can build the largest, most effective entrepreneur network in the world.
johnhill: II worked at Linkedin. We were the most effective, largest entrepreneurial network in the world. Right? And I, you know, like I, it was a little bit hyperbole, but I love that it was. B had a big, hairy, audacious goal. I'm like, Oh, and man, there's something here, and I would love to lean into it. And from that this network has grown super effectively. You are walking into the largest entrepreneurial network in the world, and I, you know it starts with the first group of people that you should all connect with and engage with here.
johnhill: Here you see, it listed as 6,000 founders to actually been 9,000 founders and participants that have gone through a tech service program to date. We are at this point a small university. And again, that credibility lens means these people are among the best out there.
johnhill: For all of you. This is your foundation for building your network here. The good thing about having me here for almost a decade is I've been consistent in the messaging to founders and participants through the time. All of you can directly connect with any techstars founder in the network. You don't have to worry about authentication through anybody else. The team here, anybody through techstars, every one of those founders have gone through a talk like this. And so they're aware that
johnhill: this is a network where founders to founders is an open expectation. Right? And I'll go a little bit more about etiquette for all of you, and like what expectations are as we go through this presentation a little bit further. But
johnhill: is your foundation for building network here. Now. Second, we've had 12,000 mentors Mentor at a Texas program to date 7,000 active in last year.
johnhill: That's just mind blowing. We don't pay them. They do it on their own volition. I was in charge of the Global Mentor network for a number of years, and I we surveyed them heavily to try to figure out like, why do you do what you do?
johnhill: The fortunate thing is that those motivations are super supportive of your engagement with them as you go down. So like, if I were you, I would bucket mentors based on why they're doing what they're doing.
johnhill: and the number one reason that mentors engage with us and engage with all of you is altruism. They just want to give back. That's an easy one. You know, they're giving people. To begin with, number 2. They're interested in technological technological trends. You give them a view of what the world looks like 2 to 5 years from now.
johnhill: And I'm gonna revisit that in a bit, because it's an important thing about how you can leverage that to navigate the to get to the people you wanna get to so when I walk into Linkedin, I'll show you like how to do that effectively. Third, they're interested in their own opportunities. So board work, committee or jobs at your company. Advisory work. Fourth, they're interested in qualified deal flow. So they sit in front of you because they wanna pair the product and service with the people and see is this somebody I want to invest in.
johnhill: None of those are a negative, and if I were you I would bucket the mentors as you engage with them to figure out which category they're in and message appropriately based on that. And so you can sort of separate them. And, by the way, mentors will tell you why they're doing what they're doing, find out.
johnhill: So last 23,000 investors have invested in a tech service company to date. They want one thing qualified deal flow build, good companies. That's what it's all about. So
johnhill: again, I love in this picture David Collins at the middle of it. One of the 4 founders of of tech stars. Because to me he epitomizes what this network is an absolutely amazing human being. If you get a chance, he's gonna be in San Francisco for the next 3 days at founder Gon
johnhill: go up and talk to him. He is mind blowing in his ability to remember people and capture it long term but it is all about the network. And most importantly, it's about, how do you leverage this network effectively. And I'm gonna take you through that journey right now. I'm not about to do a 25 min tutorial where I'm gonna give you 3 lead lists for investors out of your personal network right now.
johnhill: I'm gonna walk through Linkedin in a way that you've never seen it before. You can literally go back to your desk and copy what I'm doing as we go along. And one of the things that I know about Linkedin. It's you know. There are 950 million people
johnhill: now on the platform, and the vast majority of people are on it, but not on it strategically. That includes all of you. There's a reason for that. Linkedin's uiux sucks, and somehow, through time and okrs they made it suckier. So they hits hide some of the best value. And so I'm gonna uncover that for you. I used to be the lead product. Walk through specialists at Linkedin. I used to speak all over the world on their behalf I was infused in a product team. We built 5 products, reach 85 million people.
johnhill: I was the external face for that I was specifically tied to higher education. So if any of you are doing anything even remotely tied to higher education, we should talk. spoken at 189 universities today, 110 conferences in 23 countries. So no higher Ed in and outside the Us. Pretty well
johnhill: ton of relationships there. So one of the first things I'm going to take you into is like how not to use Linkedin like.
johnhill: And what I mean is like how you can start to remove things out of here. Now, Linkedin, is iterative. They change things all all the time. And they've changed something recently within the last 2 weeks. I discovered it when I was doing a walkthrough like this with another group at a conference. I was able to loop back in what I with what I wanted to show you and hey, everybody? But I if I go to connections, or wait, let's see.
johnhill: Yeah, let me go to connections real quick. Yeah. Yeah. I saw that. Alright. So there used to be some buttons here. They are gone now. And this just happened 2 weeks ago, and there's a reason for that. I'll give you inside context. What Linkedin is trying to do. But if you go to contacts, what I'm about show you still exist. So if you click on contacts, you can actually export all your first level connections.
johnhill: These are your all your individual first level connections within the Linkedin platform. What Linkedin will do is if you select this radio button and hit request archive. Send you a Csv file to your email on record of all your First level connections, names, titles, companies, industries, any and mail communication that you've had. You can download out of Linkedin.
johnhill: Now. Csv file fancy term for excel.
johnhill: You can do whatever you want with it. Upload it to any. Crm you're using now. One of the things that they've just done is made it even harder to find this. They're doing it on purpose because they wanna get rid of this salespeople are the ones that are maintaining this and pushing back at Linkedin. So all your salespeople that you're around tell them. Thank you because they've kept us in existence. And one of the cool things that you can do when you have that Csv file that excel spreadsheet is, you can start to sort
johnhill: all your connections by say, name, or title or company, and you can start to do a relational spot so you can see where you're strong on relationships and where you're weak. And what that allows you to do is create strategies to build out the relationships you need to navigate for the company that you're building right now or higher in to the people who have the relationships that you need. Right? So it gives you an idea of those gaps. How many of you are? 2, 3, 4, 5 people companies. Right now.
if you all download your connections, put it into one file. Dupit. You have every relationship emanating out of your company right now.
johnhill: right and again, as an aggregate, you can see all the gaps that you have on relationships where you're strong and where you're weak on relationships. Pretty cool.
johnhill: Now, one of the interesting things about terms of service on Linkedin. Anybody here or online. Going to do business in Europe. And actually, to tell you truth, California is quickly following suit. So there's a little thing called Gdpr, which makes communication to connections like this. A little bit difficult terms of service on Linkedin is implied, communication on and off platform, which is why emails exist on a First Level connection on profile, and you can communicate through Inmail on platform.
johnhill: Which means that if you were to take all the emails of the people who are First Level connections on here. Send them a company update. You pass. Gdpr muster as long as you have an opt out.
johnhill: So it affords you that outreach now, one of the things that's missing here and I hate when I'm recorded on this, because I'm a former spokesperson at Linkedin. He's recorded me in the back right now. The emails used to come out in that Csv file when you downloaded all your First level connections they no longer do is about 2 years ago that they got rid of it.
But you could copy and paste off your first level profiles. None of you are, gonna do that? Or you can go on things like Texas universe. The discord that we have for tech stars and ask, is, has anybody built a script.
johnhill: So about the time as a former spokesperson at Linkedin, I wanna put earmuffs on. II can't believe I even say that borderline scraping data. But it is your first level connections. Somebody's built scripts that will tie emails to the data that you download through the Csv file. Alright cool. Alright. So I'm gonna jump back into Linkedin
I. And
johnhill: the universal search right now is a smart search. Essentially, as you fill in, it will start to bucket what it thinks you're looking for on here. The problem with that it's not a filtered search. It's not a really good view of the data behind the information that you're typing in
johnhill: for those of you who have been on Linkedin for more than 8 years. There used to be a drop down menu there on primary navigation, people, jobs, companies, groups that still exist. It's just hidden. And it's a better way to look at the network here. So if I pop into my network, which would be your network. If I go into connections
johnhill: I can go up here to search with filters on the right hand side, and I see all my first level connections resolve here.
johnhill: I and this is where I wanna stop for a second and just talk about the importance of building a quality network. I juxtapose against a quantity network. And I always need to put a caveat here, cause I do have 11,000 First Level connections. I'm an open networker with Techsa's founders and participants. I'm probably connected to about 7,500 to 8,000 founders, which means I only have about 3,000 connections outside of that group.
johnhill: Those are high velocity people who open up the door for all of you in fortune, 500 companies and governments in venture right. I use myself as a vessel for you to connect to the opportunities you're looking for. So I actually have a small network, comparatively to all the Texas founders that are connected here.
johnhill: But I this goes back to Reed Hoffman at the time he was writing that book called the startup of you while I was working there and the Startup Review, he was looking at the most effective relationships you have that allow you to navigate relational currency.
johnhill: What he found was kind of fascinating. 85% of job opportunities through relational networking. Come out of now, you know, First level connections, but who they know connection of connection. Now it's simple amplification of numbers, right? You know more people at a second degree than you do. What at first degree. But it was kind of fascinating to see how that played out now. Secondly, he wanted to see who were the most effective people own, by the way.
johnhill: right, that Second level connection, your business development, your market development, your investment options, not about who you know. It's about who they know connection of a connection. Right? So I can make that connection back to the job. Search on that. But here was also looking at what were the most quality relationships. You have
johnhill: best affiliations to move, messaging from a First Level to a Second Level, where the vast majority of opportunity was, and he found out that there were 4 major affiliations that we all share.
johnhill: This global works globally, and I'll define that as I go along. But the first affiliation that we all have that builds a quality network of friends and family.
johnhill: Now, the problem with friends and family is a lot of times. Their network isn't big enough to help you out or aligned with what you do.
johnhill: I'm an evangelist. I was a network catalyst before this was an evangelist. Before that. My family doesn't even understand my job titles, let alone how to help me out. So I've gotta go to the second affiliation, which is university affiliation
johnhill: student, student, alumni, alumni student alumni back to institution. In the Us. Canada.
johnhill: England, there is an emotional connection to university. You know, Americans are easy to spot in Europe because they wear their letters of their university on their sweatshirts. Right? Rest of the world is transactional, education is transactional. But if you went to, which is arguably the best business school outside the Us.
johnhill: In Fontain blue France, and came here for a funding run and ran into somebody from inside here. Invariably you're gonna have a conversation. So it brings the barrier of entry to conversation down connection down. And that's all we're looking at here. So how do I take a cold call into a warm call, utilizing relationships?
johnhill: Second, most powerful affiliation, university affiliation, third, shared work, experience. How many of you have worked before. Right? That's rhetorical question. Don't raise your hand or we're in trouble. But I you know all of us have worked somewhere prior to this fourth, anything you do to support yourself professionally. These are groups that you connect to associations, you engage in conferences you attend. Now, if you run those things
johnhill: that affiliation goes way up. If you just passively attend it. It's a low, level affiliation. But those first 3 affiliations read was actually able to put numbers to that. He never published. Number one. Friends and family move messaging from a First Level to a second level, which is defined as a weak tie 80 75% of the time, 3 and 4 times
johnhill: again. Their networks are small, but if they can help you there might be university affiliation is one in 3, 33. So if I, wanted to connect into Google, and there are 3 people went to my university, that work at Google.
johnhill: Expectation through cold outreach is one of those people will respond. Shared work. Experience is one in 4, 25%. Now, this gets back into what you just walked into, which is an incredible network at tech sirs. And I wanna take a second, I'm actually gonna stop sharing my screen so that we can see everybody here, too. So everybody who's on here I actually do have to keep sharing my screen. Just second
johnhill: everybody who's here. Come off. How do I extend it
johnhill: beyond that
johnhill: right now
johnhill: on this?
johnhill: Yeah, just to see them all?
johnhill: Okay. like, any of em.
johnhill: yeah, I want them to.
johnhill: Why isn't that showing up? It's on.
johnhill: It is not showing up alright, all of you. We're on there come on, camera, and I can see you, so I'll keep you honest. But I this goes for all of you in this room. By show of hands. If anybody within the Texters network anywhere in the world were to reach out to and say, Hey, I wanna learn a little bit more about who you are and what you're about
johnhill: by show of hands. How many of you would take that call?
johnhill: Right? And if you don't raise your hand you're going to hell.
johnhill: I don't have that power on a Myish Catholic. So I'm going to feel guilty about that for the next 24 h. But the point is, all of you. Raise your hand right, and I assume all of you raise your hand as well.
So and go back to screen.
Alright.
johnhill: Okay, so you can put your hand down now. So anyway,
johnhill: again, I go back to you. Walked into the best, most effective affiliate network I've ever seen in my life, having been in charge of the Techstairs network for 7 years. And it's more anecdotal than anything but founder to founder. Interaction seems to be complete
johnhill: for every 3 times which means, roughly, 66%. Which means this is just shy of friends and family. As far as an affiliate network is concerned, it is an absolutely amazing network that you just walked into. Now, I wanna show you how to navigate it. And I'm gonna start with your own personal relational network. So I'm gonna go up to all your connections at a first or second level. So we'll look at director indirect tie.
johnhill: So this is the universal people you can reach based on kind of reads framework on here. 1.6 million people I can reach. I'm not going to go through 1.6 million people like that would take me a couple of years to do so. I want to take this down to a smaller subset of people. What's your primary need? If you have, it makes the world go round
johnhill: funding right money. So who is money?
johnhill: PC,
johnhill: so Linkedin has done something pretty cool for you. Their taxonomy, as far as industries are concerned, is based on the old sic codes. So they're like Naics, codes, or naics codes, or whatever they are. Their government designation. By industry for use utilized for tax for schoolboy. So every country in the world uses some kind of representation of this and the interesting thing is, one of the categories is related to what it you all need
johnhill: funding. So if I come down here, I can add all of all the people who are associated with venture, capital and private equity that are first or second level, that have a connection on Linkedin. And again you can walk back to your desk after this and see all the people in your network that are associated with one of the primary things that you need funding.
johnhill: So I can see the 91,000 people I have connected at first or second level that are in venture way too many to go through anybody, not from the Bay Area. San Francisco is kind of a cheat code on this. So name a city one of you are from any city.
johnhill: Melbourne, Melbourne. Oh, you took me out of country great! Hi! So let me come up here.
johnhill: And I will type in Melbourne, and I'm gonna do the greater Melbourne area. That's metropolitan statistical area. So everything you want is on the greater side for any city you're looking at takes the whole region. And so when I select that I can see all the people who are in venture in my network at a first or second level that are in Melbourne that have a profile on Linkedin. So I've got 39 name a vertical one of you are building your company in any vertical
johnhill: e-commerce. All right. So one of the cool things I can do is actually search this set.
johnhill: So if I come up here.
johnhill: I can type in e-commerce. I'm not gonna select anything. I'm just gonna hit return. And it looks at all the people on Melbourne 14 in a first or second level that are in e-commerce. So if I were looking at thesis of an investor, I can take words off their profile to match what my vertical is to identify some of those people that can support and help me out. I have all those people in my network that are in venture right, and how I really teach one of them.
johnhill: So Brian, for instance, is a tech Star's founder. I can't see it as well on there as we can in here.
johnhill: actually, almost all these people are techstars, founders that are connecting with these people. But this one in particular is interesting. This is Christian Southern wrong. Christian is the CEO of glass soar.
johnhill: Christian and I worked at Linkedin together, and I convinced Christian to come and speak at Foundercon. He'll be speaking there in 2 days. I just emailed him, and he responded, about 1520 min before I started talking. Right
johnhill: so, Christian, if I ask him, hey, could you connect me with. Jack shared work experience. He's likely to do it right. And I built the relationship there, and I'll go a little bit more into that. But now I'm gonna start to talk about how I would navigate affordable email to get into Jack.
johnhill: So say, I'm building something in e-commerce. I'm looking at mobilizing the people in Vc. That are in Melbourne that are in my network to support and help me out right? I'm in Texas, in San Francisco, but figured you'd wanna
johnhill: keep an eye on this
johnhill: Christian. Can't wait to see you speak. In a couple of days I'd be great to have you on stage. Thank you for agreeing to do that. I see you're connected to Jack. I'd love to have a conversation with him with Jack. II wanna offer something in the process, and I want to give something. II wanna take something away from him as well.
johnhill: There's a great book. If you ever get a chance called Give and Take by Adam Grant. If any any of you have read it before, you'll know what I'm talking about. It really helps you also identify the type of people to hire from a cultural perspective, because these givers are very unique people within ecosystems that support growth of companies. But
johnhill: what I wanna do is give Jack something in the conversation that I'm utilizing Christian to get into through shared work experience to him, and so I might say something like this. Jack building a company in e-commerce originally from Melbourne, just happened to be at Tech Stars in San Francisco right now. I asked Christian if he would connect me with you. It looks like you're doing something within e-commerce. Ii
johnhill: have some interesting insights based in the build. A company that I've done so far. Remember the number 2 reason why people mentor is insight into technological trends. They wanna see what the world looks like at 2 to 5 years from now you're nimble, you are tip of the sphere of what's coming down. If I'm in venture. If I'm in corporate, I want to engage with you, cause you give me a view of what the world's gonna look like.
johnhill: And I said, That's my give to him. Now my ask back is not for money. My ask is for advice building this early seed stage company. We're trying to figure out how to navigate X. Whatever that is, believe that your insight might be helpful in the process. Would you be open for a conversation? Now, if that conversation takes place, and you started by asking for advice. The advice is an emotional connection.
johnhill: If people give it to you, it's not a transaction, it's not money. It's giving a piece of them to you. If every interaction you have is asking for advice. Eventually you end up being qualified. Deal flow for these people because they're emotionally invested in you. And they get to see the person connected to the product and service slide mentorship works at an organization like tech stars. It's like a win win process, right? So part of the framework of how you can navigate this to get to where you wanna go.
johnhill: And by the way you can play off every vertical, every geography to do what I just did. And you can associate with your direct Linkedin network. Now.
johnhill: So that's lead list number one, I'm about to give you a second one. Go ahead.
johnhill: No, I'm going through Christian first, and I'm not doing it through. Linkedin. What's the most effective way to communicate with somebody?
johnhill:  not not a trick question. face to face, right what's the second most effective way to communicate with somebody.
No
johnhill: phone zoom, hangout, right? What's the least effect? A way to communicate with somebody
johnhill: Linkedin email is like eleventeenth. But email, text, right? Direct messages. Stuff like that fall down right? I wanna flip something back at you right now, what is your primary way of communicating with people right now?
johnhill: All those things that are in the last bucket. Right?
johnhill: Your most important relationships figure out how to get phone, to phone, zoom, to zoom, face to face, try to move into that bucket. And so that's what I would try to advance towards. This is a tool to get there. I actually wouldn't even use Linkedin in mail as a communication platform, I would take it into email and go in that direction.
johnhill: Cool. Alright. So venture capital in here that next code. It's imperfect. It's like an umbrella. And so if you work at Amazon or ebay, or you know, Linkedin, or whatever you're an information technology, you can invest in companies. You're just not captured in that venture capital and private equity tab. I name another give another name for investors that you might be searching out
johnhill: angels. Right?
johnhill: So the problem with Linkedin is it doesn't cover everything. And so you have to search. Trick the system a little bit to find what you're looking for. So I'm gonna reset. This. And by the way, in e-commerce, there's 3.1 4 million people that say they're associated with it. So you can find that partners that you wanna connect to experts by looking at first and second level connections and navigate navigating into the people who have that knowledge share that you need to tap into. But I'm gonna look at everybody
johnhill: who's related to angel investor or angel investing. So this is a Boolean search. As I go through. It's a restrictive search I can also use. I can use the and or as I go through this process, but I can search the entire Linkedin network to find what I'm looking for. So I can use iterations of angel investor, angel investing, investing things like that. But here are the 70,000 people who have the phrase angel investor on their profile.
johnhill: Now I can take that down into network. So to see a smaller subset of people, First and Second Level Connections.
johnhill: and I now have the 37,000 people that are angel investors that are in my network for Second Level connection. Name another vertical, and I know a bunch of you are e-commerce, but another and something else not associated with e-commerce, so we can play off another vertical. She can see how this plays out. What was that? Security? Alright cyber security or cyber security? Alright, so I can come here.
johnhill: and the cyber security. 2 words it. It is now right
johnhill: like that.
johnhill: I'm a former journalist. I can't spell. It's crazy. Alright. So here are the 49 people, or 490 people who are in cyber security that are angel investors that are in my first or Second Level connection, who is cyber security?
johnhill: Who said that? Where do you live?
Thanks.
johnhill: Lagos.
johnhill: So I just spoke to our managing director there
johnhill: 2 days ago. I'll be speaking virtually in a November. But no, I didn't need to do that, but I just did a search for Legos, but I should have used location. But here are the 8 people who have Legos on their profile, cyber security that are First or Second Level connection that are angel investors.
johnhill: I do you know any of these people? By the way.
johnhill: you should so and again, I can see who I relate to that connection. So Hugo used to be our Md. For a program that we had in Lisbon, Portugal, Hugo and I were
johnhill: at a Texas retreat that we call Staffcon. We broke up to do something fun we were doing little videos that represented the value of Texas. We decided to skip that and did the backstreet boys and sang we were ridiculed and mocked, and he ended up leaving Texas hopefully, not because of that. But Hugo and I are good buddies. He's a he's. He's a good human being. I get to see him at Web Summit when I head out there, so I could mobilize him to connect into the person that's there
johnhill: right pretty cool. So I just gave you lee list number 2. I'll give you a third one in a second. But now I wanna represent text for you, and I wanna talk about if I were in your seats, how I would develop a network effectively here.
johnhill: And so I'm gonna reset reset all this, I'm gonna go back to the end. If I'm sitting in your seats, there are 4 ways that I would build this network, and you are, by the way, in a very envious position from a tech search perspective, because there are more founders in this room than there normally would be
johnhill: at one of our accelerators. So the number one thing you should do is cross, connect with each other.
johnhill: This should be a tree of trust. You should be sharing what's working? What's not working? Who you need to connect to asking for help as you go through the process. Don't worry about signal right? This audience within this room should be supportive of build a company right? So the number one thing you should be doing is helping each other out.
johnhill: Number 2 thing you should be doing is connecting within the geography whether it's Legos Melbourne any of the cities that you live in and connect back to the people who live there that are associated with tech guarantee that there are tech sales people in every one of your ecosystems. Those are the people you get together with a cup for a cup of coffee, and commiserate with and talk to because they've been through this lens. They get what this is. Number 3, connect with people in your vertical.
johnhill: I guarantee that there are tech stairs companies further along in the vertical that you're going into who can help you navigate some of the issues that will invariably come in front of you because they went through them.
johnhill: Right? So you're tapping into those people who can help you avoid. You know what's gonna happen in the future, and then last and bless you! And I hate to break this. You are all fallible. You're imperfect in your build, the companies right? There are things you're not doing well, whether it's go to market or product development, or Hr. Or marketing, whatever we have thought leaders and subject matter experts in every single space that you would want to go into
johnhill: right. And so you can start to get this down to the people who can really help you out. And so let's put this in practice. And so we'll start with doing a search for tech star. So ahead of time. I'm just gonna set the stage for you. Something's broken on the search on this term. It's been broken for a while.
So this comes up a different number every time I do this.
johnhill: Recently it's been 1213, 15, and 19,000. There are almost 31,000 people who have tech stars written on their profile somewhere, for all of you. Just put it anywhere on your profile to run a search, run a profile, search so as long as you have it somewhere in your profile we're good, right? But so we'll see what it comes up as
johnhill: but as you do search and go back into people
johnhill: as you do. Search. It'll start to. All those people will populate just for this original piece. It doesn't come up right. And today it's 19,000. So let's use what we just talked about in practice. Name, another city. One of you are from
johnhill: Paris, all right.
johnhill: so I can come here and look at Harris.
johnhill: Alright. So. And you're in a vertical of e-commerce right fashion. Okay.
johnhill: so let's look at all the people who have the word fashion on their profile in Paris associated with Texas. So now I have affiliation of Texas. I have geography, I have fashion. Are you struggling with anything. Build a company.
johnhill: What? Funding? Alright.
johnhill: So now I have everybody who's techstars investor greater Paris. And I can again take this down into my network. So I'm going to bring it down to First and Second Level Connections.
johnhill: And here are the people I can connect into that are associated with that right? So that framework I just gave you on how to build your network here. You can deploy immediately to identify the people we can support and help you out
johnhill: right and again, like, if I'm looking at fashion as a category, I can just take this fashion.
I'll take investor out, and I'll take Paris out to look at the universe.
johnhill: So all the people associated with techs that have fashion on their profile. 477. These are the people I partner with. These are the people I generate knowledge share through. These are the people I do partnership partnerships with, or have conversation, you know, just to support and help me out right, and I can go through this in like a cup of coffee, and find all the people who I think are going to be most effective at helping me build my company. And all of you have the ability to do this right now.
johnhill: So I'm gonna jump out of the tech service side, and I'm gonna get into an affiliation that you use. Least go ahead.
johnhill: I would always go through the people I know
johnhill: right? And so this goes back to billing quality network. And I wanna step back for a second because I know that most of you have done this. Hey? Can you grab me a join concern? I go dry.
johnhill: So  How many of you have connected with somebody in your network
johnhill: that you have no idea who they are. a conference or on a plane, or, you know, like just they randomly reach out to you like, Hey, that person sounds interesting. Those people are utilized useless in this process.
johnhill: They're just not worth it.
johnhill: So all of you can go into your network and prune your network. And I actually do it on a regular basis. You can go down through your contact list, where we clicked on my connections, my network. And you go like, just remove people, and all Linkedin does is send them a certified letter, saying, you no longer want to be connected with them. No, I'm just kidding like nothing happens. They just like disappear right?
johnhill: And so like, there's no harm in that and again, it's thank you so much. It's about building a quality network, not a quantity network. Go ahead. But
johnhill: I think so.
johnhill: And who's on our own?
johnhill: Let's let's wait. But
johnhill: yeah. So the arguments are usually sales and marketing. And I actually can dig that like, that's those are the areas where I'm like. And I get where you're coming from on that go ahead.
johnhill: You're not getting off.
johnhill: are you using navigator? So you can do searches on the back end, and you can separate the audiences through navigator. So the cool thing for you, for prospecting is those people will pop like. If somebody changes a job and ends up from your network in whatever category you're targeting, they'll show up there and then you can prospect. And by the way, people make the most decisions employing technology in their first year taking a new job. So it's a good practice to do, anyway.
johnhill: To see like, who's there that you wanna engage and connect with right?
johnhill: So in the first year, when people move into new positions is when they're most likely to adopt new technology. They're trying to prove themselves out right? Yeah.
johnhill: So anyway,
johnhill: I'm gonna jump into the university side of this world. For a bit and partly because the filtering system on the university side is amazing, and it's a network queue under utilize so just prove that out similar to Texas. If a student from the university you went to or reach out to you and say, Hey, I wanna learn a little bit more about who you are and what you're about. Your experience. Techs are, how many of you would take that call
johnhill: right? It's gonna be the vast majority of you. And so this is a network you don't use as much as you could, and it has amazing depth that you can navigate. And, by the way, how many of you have? 2, 3, 4 different universities associated your founding teams right? Or your teams right? So this is gonna give you tons of lead lists that you can go after.
So Namy University, one of you went to any university in this room.
johnhill: Purdue, who's Purdue?
johnhill: That's awesome. I so I was a Mc. For Michigan State University Athletics, football and basketball. I used to follow the teams to like final fours and bowl games and stuff like that. But we do all the bowl games, and it was a way to do like time, talent, treasure for fundraising fundraising. So I've spoken at Purdue before.
johnhill: For that. But anyway, I if I type in here, Purdue, I can click on this, and you're looking for anything that says higher education. English schools are doing this weird thing where it's now saying, instead of higher education, research services, no idea why they're doing that.
johnhill: But cause they're self selecting that. But if I click on this I can look at all the alumni that went to Purdue. By clicking on this little button down here that says alumni right here.
johnhill: So when I used to speak in front of universities when I was working at Linkedin. I used to use universal search to play off university affiliation to show. Hey! Here are the alumni. You can mobilize to support time out talent and treasure, and I, our developers from our Linkedin team, the product team I was on use. Follow me around. And they built this following tool based on my talks. So they effectively a a affectionately called the John Hill, in a box. This is my baby. This is the alumni tool.
johnhill: and it shows all the alumni from Purdue in this instance. But any university in the world all the alumni by where they live, where they work where they live, what they do, what they're skilled at, what they're studied, what they studied and how they're connected.
johnhill: So remember, I gave you a lead list through the sic codes. Right? Venture, capital, private equity. We did one through search angel investor, angel investing. So here's the third one, and it's university affiliation.
johnhill: So do you know all the venture capital that went to Purdue?
johnhill: Yeah, all of them. Everybody who's in Vc.
johnhill: That went to Purdue. This does so. If I pop over here
johnhill: by what they're skilled at. This is what based on lightweight recommendations of people's profiles. I can see all the people who are associated with venture capital that have a profile on Linkedin that went to Purdue right? 936, where we at right now
this area.
johnhill: So now I can see the 133 that went to Purdue, that are in San Francisco and have a profile. Linkedin, what are you building
alright. So marketplace.
johnhill: so I can now search this set for anybody. Has the word marketplace on their profile.
johnhill: Now I did not go to Purdue. Here are the 4 alumni.
johnhill: But I can also see the people who are on my relational network.
Right? So. And then it goes up to 5. That's worth.
johnhill: That's something broken on the Linkedin side. But here are the people who fit that criteria marketplace. Purdue.
johnhill: Venture capital, right? And you know again what was my expectation of response through cold outreach
johnhill: one and 3.
johnhill: Right? So with relationships, it's gonna be even higher, right while you're here. You can connect to the people, or associated with that affiliation
johnhill: to open up the door for you. Right. If I were you, I would reverse map. All the relationships that are in the market, all the people, you know. And by the way, those people come up again and again and again, connecting with a bunch of people, they're your super connectors like, make them ambassadors for your company, cause they get you into doors
more quickly because they know more people
johnhill: right? As an aside, I cause. I'll forget to talk about this as I go.
johnhill: The most effective way to become all of ideal flow is to get in
johnhill: introduced to an investor from a company that has been invested by that investor. Texas has 23,000 investors that it's tied to
johnhill: reach out to the techstars companies that are connected to the investors that you want to invest in you.
johnhill: They do an introduction. It puts you in a different pile and opens up the door for you to get to get a real look. Alright cool. All right. I'm gonna jump off the investment side for this. And by the way I feel like I can drop the mic phone and walk out at this point. But I want to take you into the your second primary need, which is talent.
johnhill: So let's play along with this for a little bit. The cool thing for me is I've set one on one with 1,600 texts companies at all levels. So all the way to our companies who have gone public from the ones that are just starting like yourselves.
johnhill: And II particularly love talent came out of career services at Michigan State University, always at Linkedin and I. So I would ask a ton of questions in the space, and one of the things that is fascinating is up to about 25 hires for all of you. You recruit out of network, not like a like fully, but
johnhill: quite a bit right? You think about it. Your first 25 hires are usually people, you know, or people they know
johnhill: right. And you do it passively, and you're using it as a credibility. Lens these people get
johnhill: who I am or what I'm doing. Kind of thing. The thing you're not doing is becoming an active headhunter.
johnhill: And so I wanna take you down that pathway for a second to find the talent you need to grow what you're doing? So
johnhill: I let's start with
johnhill: a role that you're looking for any role.
johnhill: What was it? Software engineers too easy. So let's go deeper than that
johnhill: software engineer. With what experience? What language, whatever? Huh? Thanks. So too easy, you're being you're being this. Let's take it like, I love computer vision.
johnhill: And what
people computer vision and deep learning? All right. Where are you building your company right now? Oh, let's see
johnhill: no cool.
johnhill: II spoke at Cambridge I spoke at Lse. I spoke at Lbs. I've never spoken at Oxford.
johnhill: I need to fix that so.
johnhill: anyway. So are you building in London, are you building in Oxford in Oxford? Wow, that's interesting. Okay, so, you have an incredible amount of riches. Okay? So see.
johnhill: the English schools are all using this research services. This is a brand new thing. They're actually changing. I have no idea why, but they are so. Anyway, if I click on this. I can go to your university all right.
johnhill: So I'm going to use this search. But remember, when we use the general search to look at angel investor and e-commerce. But I can do the same thing there. I just like using the university lens more.
johnhill: Now, the interesting thing about talking to those 1,600 companies. You built your companies one of 2 ways pre covid, like our start up, sit you were intentionally distributed, which was actually only about 5% of our companies which meant, you look went for the best talent around the world. You didn't care where it was from.
johnhill: Right? 95% of you built the primary employee base wherever you're building your company. Now, Covid, change that, and it's smashed in the middle. So it's about 50 50 right now. So we'll do both examples. For you. So you're looking for deep tech computer vision kind of thing.
johnhill: right? So I can use this alumni tool. And again I can do this over a cup of coffee, or like tonight. When you're like winding down in your spare time. And II can look at all those people on my backyard. And so
johnhill: Oxford actually comes up. Yep. So here are the 20,860 people who are on this tool that are in Oxford. Right now, I want those people who have that experience.
johnhill: You have computer vision.
johnhill: And again, you can apply this to any role you're looking for. I and I'm looking for those people who have would dtap be. One word or 2 2 words need tag
johnhill: alright. You need to hire Richard.
johnhill: I'm gonna take. I'm gonna go back in here and change deep tech. And I'll do it. Sure.
johnhill: Machine learning is probably gonna be better. But that one came up with 94 right? And then I can look at those people who are deep learning who are in Oxford that have computer vision. And by the way, you can see all the languages popping up who graduated in which one computer science, computational science, which one's good
johnhill: hats
johnhill: machine learning. Okay, here, the second. And by the way, I want to leverage my network to get into these people. So I'm going to look at any Second Level connections that I have.
johnhill: Alright, if this is Richard again now, now it's back right.
johnhill: I think about what I just did. I took 950 million people down to this person who fits the criteria of what you're looking for. And I can see the relationships in between Rob and I were on the University team at Linkedin together, and I've spent time at his house in North Carolina. He spent time at my house in Boston, right
johnhill: like we threw a party for people on higher education in Vegas at a conference. And people on Higher Ed never get treated that way by big tech companies we literally made, like Linkedin blue drinks for them to celebrate. We ended up getting in trouble on the back end, cause we spent like $15,000 on the party. But it is still legendary, and it's over a decade old. But like Rob, I could, he's on my phone. I could text him right now, and he'd probably respond. In fact, I will do that
johnhill: to.
johnhill: I'll tell you what he says.
johnhill: I'm gonna ask him about Ben.
johnhill: See what he says.
johnhill: Anyway. Now.
johnhill: do you? I
johnhill: I can't do 2 things at once.
johnhill: Do you know
johnhill: then. Moseley?
johnhill:  Oxford?
johnhill: Alright! Let's see how quickly so, anyway, I could go through all the universities in the area right Imperial. I could go through, you know, King's college stuff, whatever school and anybody who's related to Oxford. See all the best talent that's migrating there, or I could look at the best town in the world associated with that. So let me
johnhill: let's say out. Yeah, go ahead, Bud.
johnhill: sometimes.
johnhill: That's what I was talking about with pruning your network right? And it's building that quality network. So like one of the cool things about
johnhill: doing this for a decade with Techsour's people is all those people who went through this program previously have had this talk. We've talked about the importance of billing quality networks. Right? So the more Texas people you connect to at a foundational level, the more likely you're gonna get into that Second Level connection. Right now, I'm super fortunate. Texars is a great network. It's one of the best entrepreneurial networks in the world. Linkedin was an amazing network
johnhill: for the people I worked with
johnhill: Rob Christian. It popped up right. And II could get into pretty much any fortune. 500 company through that network. Right? So, but I wanna I wanna go quality. Now, say, I, wanna reverse engineer this and look at the people, the programs that are graduating the best people in the world at what I'm looking for. So mit right? And I could do this for distributed not even put location and see all the people in my network that are associated with that, or I can take it down to your backyard. Right?
So
johnhill: here are
johnhill: the 108 people that went to Mit
johnhill: that went to Oxford.
johnhill: And again, I can look at all those people that are
associated with computer vision.
johnhill: And here are the 3 alumni that went to Mit that are there
johnhill: right now. Little trick I can also do is, if I have, like a large amount of people. So if we did backend engineer or software engineer, you're gonna have 150 people show up right? You can use this search bar to say, how do I find the people who are like me, startup, entrepreneur, founder, and search this set for the people who are most likely to be there, and nobody shows up on this. But say, I wanted to reach
johnhill: one of these people. So Daniel, who actually is another Linkedin person, is amazing connects me with Max.
johnhill: If I utilize Daniel and do affordable to Max saying, Hey, I have an opening at my startup for computer vision. I really interested in your background. I think you have some of the experience we're looking for. You interested in talking to us about this role. He has 3 things. He ways. He can respond. Number one
johnhill: interested. You just qualify somebody through outreach like this. And it took you, you know, over a cup of coffee. Right? You can do this in the morning, and every hire you do is the next most important hire. So you might as well be proactive about and become your own headhunter in the process right? And this is a way to do it. Number 2. Not interested. Does that hurt you at all? No
johnhill: right, number 3 not interested. But I'll share with my network.
johnhill: Who are people like Max, networked with
johnhill: other people in deep tag computer vision? Right? And so you're tapping into that pool as well with this alright customer acquisition. Any of you want to sell into somebody right? Name a company you want to sell into any company
johnhill: sporting goods all right. So what are we selling in dicks?
johnhill: Golf club recommendation? Alright. So you could go university and look at all the people who work at Dicks, and you can do search for like
johnhill: CTO, or product, or whatever you want in that tool. But that's not the best way to do it. So I actually would recommend you go through the company page. So if I come up here I can go into exporting goods. And, by the way, how many of you have company pages on Linkedin.
johnhill: Alright. So
johnhill: you have editable rights on the back end. It means you can also see who's following you. Up to about 1,500 followers. Anybody have more than 1,500 followers on the page.
johnhill: You can bucket everybody who comes out of it, and they generally fall into 4 categories. Number one, their friends and family. Raa Raa, cheering on right number 2. There are people who want to use your product
johnhill: right? So it's lead Gen. For sales. Number 3. It's people who want to work for you. So it's talent, opportunity number 4. It's people who want to mentor or invest in you.
johnhill: All of you should be looking at that, because that's like a wide signal that they take an action on your page that they're interested in you in some way, shape or form. You should figure out how to mobilize them
johnhill: starts to get unwieldy after about 1,500 people. But up to that point you can do it
johnhill: right. So spend some time bucketing people. Now, one of the cool things about
johnhill: company pages
johnhill: is there's a ton of data here that makes me effective at selling them right and figuring out how to get into the right people there. And I'm gonna go through that process. I'm gonna start with this little life button right here. Dix actually pays Linkedin for that life button.
johnhill: The reason they're doing it is they wanna recruit talent. They're using this as a platform that way. They're also using it for marketing, by the way, but they're trying to recruit talent. If you click on this, what's gonna end up happening is you're gonna see a series of testimonials series of videos about what it's like to work there.
johnhill: If you watch those, if you read those, they're gonna tell you their values, they're gonna tell you how they're separating themselves from other players in the market because they're trying to separate themselves for the talent that they're after. They're giving you the words that are important to them. Use those words back at them for pitch, product and service. They're telling you how to talk to them
johnhill: right? If the life button isn't there. If you look at the top end of jobs, the job description. They'll do the same thing there, and you dig those words and pitch them back. Now, other interesting thing is, if I'm in sales like you're doing the gen, right, are are you working on Smb's
johnhill: use? Yeah, so you have one of the hardest roads to travel, because it's hard to pattern match like with Dix, it's easy, because there are other large scale, you know, like sports apparel stores. Right? If you're doing small mid size business becomes more difficult to figure out if I sell into one, how do I sell into 20 others? This gives you that tool.
johnhill: And so if I pop back here to a home page, it shows through user patterns. So every time you sell into somebody, look at this, look at their company page on here. And I can see the 20 companies that are most similar
johnhill: based on user patterns. Right? So again, it gives me lead lists that I can go after, and I can see how I relate to each one of these companies. Tell me the best relationships I have in every one of them.
johnhill: So if I pop back here. one of the cool things about working at companies like Linkedin, Facebook.
johnhill: ebay, whatever you roll something out. And I, it's seen by the world. Yeah, one of the coolest things for me is to be was to be on the plane the first time I saw the alumni tool that I showed you
johnhill: somebody navigating that that didn't work at Linkedin.
Right? You saw in a while and say, wow! I can't believe that that happened right.
johnhill: John Hill in a box has now been around for 12 years, and 2 years ago they associate it with every company page. So who's your decision? Maker? Obviously somebody related to golf.
right? Product operations like
johnhill: e-commerce. All right. So watch this.
johnhill: This people. Tab is actually the alumni tab. So it's all the people who work at dicks.
johnhill: by where they live, where they studied, what they do, what they're skilled at, and how you're connect to them. So if I can create an archetype of the decision maker
johnhill: within the organization. I can then start to do search for their titles, their information on a space like this, so like the first thing I'm going to do is like, look at my network. Who do I have there?
johnhill: And that brings me down to 78 boys that are there. Now I want to find anybody who has things like golf.
johnhill: Let's see
golf clubs, golf equipment.
johnhill: Alright.
johnhill: So nobody in my network. Let me see, broader. And I'm gonna show you another trick on this. So here are the 89 people that are golf equipment right? And then I want those people who fall into
johnhill: operations
johnhill: product, if it's a category. So let's look at the 24 people and operations there.
And if I scroll down. I can start to search, and some of these are low level.
johnhill: So I would want a higher position. But I can start to search for people who may fit that category.
johnhill: So
none of these look great.
Yeah. So I might have to play around with this a little bit to find the people that oh.
johnhill: planning manager's not bad
johnhill: and see.
johnhill: a lot of these are at local level. But you're gonna have to continue to date right? So what you'll use is these keyword searches to find the people that you're looking for that could support and help you out
johnhill: and then reverse engineer the relationships to get into that person right? Pretty cool.
johnhill: Okay.
johnhill: so spray it this one that point 5,000 employees.
So watch this. So have any of you. I've seen the departed.
johnhill: So it's a Martin Scorsese film. Jack Nicholson, leader, Dicaprio Matt Damon, Mark Wahlberg. All those folks are in it.
johnhill: I was born in Savin Hill, which is an Irish enclave in Boston. Remember Leonardo Dicaprio gets out of prison, and he's in his aunt's house with his cousin in the kitchen, and then they're on the front porch like the first 10 min of the movie those scenes were filmed in my grandmother's house. I am Boston through and through.
johnhill: and the reason Martin Scorsese picked that location wasn't because it was beautiful, it was because it wasn't gentrified, right? It was non time specific, which means it looked kind of crappy right?
johnhill: But in the neighborhood I was in Irish Enclave like information was everything, and you figured out how to kind of operate in a street manner on navigating that information. I'm gonna show you how you can do this on here. So if you're trying to navigate Dix.
johnhill: and you want to get to the people who can help you out? Where'd you go to? School?
1,000?
johnhill: Oh, this one might be challenging. Let's see if it works. I can come in here, and I can do that original search that we went into. So I can look at the 24,000 people that work at Dix that have a profile that's public
johnhill: on Linkedin. I can come down to here, and I want to look at those people who used to work there because I'm using this for due diligence right? And I want those people who used to work here who went to University
Wisconsin.
Claire.
and I'm gonna do a search.
johnhill: And here are the 39 people who used to work there.
johnhill: Alright. And I wanna look at those people who have the word golf on their profile. And here are the 8 people that have golf that went to University Wisconsin. O cler, that used to work at Dex right? One of those people. And, by the way, again, you have 3, 4 universities on your team. You can do this with multiple universities. But if I can do this for University Wisconsin. All, Clare. I can do it for just about anything right. And I, if I find the right person on here. they're
johnhill: no longer connected to the company. They're more connected to me, based in university affiliation. Remember, friends and family university shared work experience. I get them on the phone.
johnhill: They'll tell me everything.
johnhill: the right person to talk to the right approach. They'll tell me what's effective at selling into the company. This is how I do my due diligence. This is like the Savon Hill approach to navigating information to get what you need.
johnhill: Alright, yeah, pretty cool. Alright. So if we come back to homepage. I'm gonna wrap on 4 things. So bear with me. I know I gotta be somewhere in 47 min, anyway. So who's viewed your profile?
johnhill: If you pitch
johnhill: product service to somebody. And after the meeting you see that they looked at your profile, what does it tell you?
johnhill: They wouldn't look otherwise they're interested. If you see, after you pitch product and service. Somebody at the company that was not in the meeting looked at your profile after that meeting. What does that tell you
johnhill: they're talking about? You could be really good, or you failed spectacularly like, I have no idea which one it is. But you know it. It's what it is. Yeah. So
johnhill: hi! You're about to embark in a journey. How many of your first time founders?
johnhill: If I could go back to the nineties when I was building my company. It was so much easier from this perspective. You're all now asked to be brands of yourself and your company right? And that's through content, like people are. Gonna ask you to be everything to everybody, as far as content is concerned, right to aggregate audience.
johnhill: promote product and service stuff like that. I'm gonna give you a little hack on how to do this in a way that if you're not comfortable doing like long form, blogging and really developing personality tied to your product, you can still get away with it.
johnhill: So linkedin's really good at creating virality loops through content. Because every time somebody takes an action it goes into their feed, and it's all transparent. So they're all professionals. You see, the information coming to the next group. Right? So there's a credibility attachment to content as well. So they're super interesting thing. And by the way, they're changing this system as well, and they just started doing that. But if I jump onto my profile
johnhill: I'm gonna go into content for a second. I'm just another little hack. We have a ton of founders that use their linkedin profiles as a way to extend marketing reach, so they'll put like an investment deck light on there, or a video of what they do, and every one of their employees do it as well. So you can use this as a tool to aggregate a bunch of people. I generally don't talk about that, but it's kinda cool. So if I come down here to post
johnhill: I'm gonna look at the content. That I've posted and these are posts that I've made. So I do this in like 5 min.
johnhill: I'm and I think I'm gonna pick. I guess it doesn't matter which one I pick. But this was me this morning. So this is 5 in the morning on the plane and look at. I had the whole plane to myself.
johnhill: I really didn't. I'm a diamond so I could get on the plane first. It's kind of cool anyway? So I've been with you for an hour and 15 min. Who should I be talking to? Who do you think I talk to most often
johnhill: founders entrepreneurs. Right? So here's a little trick for you. 2 tricks. One. If
johnhill: you want to use this platform to promote yourself or any platform. And there's a little philosophy called Create Create Ones, published everywhere. And the idea is, you create a quintessential germ of content. And then you just change it a little bit and tweak it through each social media.
johnhill: Linkedin's a good place to start. So you put 2 or 3 sentences together and post, and it hits a pretty large network very quickly has a network effect pretty quickly. So I just wrote, Hey, I'm in San Francisco, hanging with my friends from Texas kind of thing right? And so since this morning I have 3,000 impressions, and so as long as you have the job seeker above, you'll be able to see the metrics on the back end, and it'll showcases your content brand aligned.
So if I do the view analytics.
johnhill: I can see who's reading my content. So if I come down here.
I can look at job titles
johnhill: and founders and co-founders are reading my content. The average person can remember 4 things about you. That's it.
johnhill: Which means that if you're gonna do content and become a brand and content through things like this, only speak about 4 things, and so if you follow me enough, you'll hear that I talk about tech stars. Linkedin, Boston, and Michigan State. I've already referenced all those things during this talk. Now I can do subsets under that. So Linkedin networking
johnhill: techstar is entrepreneurship right? It gives me breadth, but I only really focus on those 4 categories for development of Brand. So the cool thing about this is you can ab test messaging to see what works and what doesn't work with the audiences you're trying to reach. Now on that flip side. I'm also trying to help you get into big Cos.
johnhill: so I can see this one. It's just Google is up Texas, Michigan State, but generally Amazon, general Motors. Things like that. Gee will pop up here. Depending on what I'm talking about. So like it also say, shows me I have this little I can connect to these people on the other end. Now. Last thing
johnhill: notifications. I'm a huge fan of water on your network. I've got a relatively large network, but I've figured out a framework on where I can engage as many people as possible. So I did it on the plane today. Every day I go through things like notifications or I'll search through social queues to see changes that people are having professionally. So. If they move from like one city to another, I'll introduce them to people I know in that market. If they start a job at a new company.
johnhill: I'll introduce them to people I know at that company, if they're celebrating something. I don't hit the like button or respond to that post, I'll send them a direct message.
johnhill: Kind of reinforcing how awesome it is for whatever they're doing or taking action. So if they're saying, Hey, upload me on, product on, I'll do it, and then write them a note
johnhill: right? All those little things I do that 20 times a day, 5 times a week, Monday, through Friday, so 100 times a week course of the year, I'm celebrating something that somebody's doing professionally 5,000 times do adjust in time thing. I've already done like 30 times to been on the ground in San Francisco people I may not be able to see. But I want them to know I'm thinking about them. I'll just send them notes. And hey, I'm in thinking about June. That's it.
johnhill: They respond. Great. They don't respond. Great, not worried either way. Right? I do that. Another 2,500 to 3,000 times a year at the end of every year. Right 100. Henry knows the people impacted my life personally or professionally the year before, talking about how we can work together in the next year, and I do that in lieu of holiday cards.
I've been doing that for 15 years. You really want to cut through clutter, handwritten notes are gold.
johnhill: It's a beautiful way to engage with people, and it's like a high hit rate, and it's not why you do it. But if I were to reach out to any of those people where I celebrated something about who they are are what they're about professionally.
johnhill: Are they more likely to support and help all of you making introductions into them? Probably right? And it's not why I'm doing it. But I'm telling you I like, keep your networks warm. You are the most just in time of anybody in the network world. Right? Focus on investors. I get the money focus on talent.
johnhill: bring the talent and focus on operations. And you start to forget about these things. So this is just a way to kinda keep that engine running as the other things come to the forefront in regard to importance. So on a pop back here to presentation, real quick. And the second thing outside of the V hag that David Cohen talked about with building largest entrepreneurial network in the world
johnhill: I'm caught on stage talking about. Give, give give to your network with no expectation receiving or pay it forward 15 years ago, again, literally search Youtube, John Hill, Michigan State. And you'll hear me talking about that.
johnhill:  David was saying, like this is super interesting because we have this group of people who are incredible atoms bouncing against each other in these programs that we've developed.
johnhill: And I create this like
johnhill: incredible camaraderie in the process of venture capital. That is unique. Traditionally venture capital is transactional. I give you money, I expect, return what he was defining. He didn't have the words for that point, but we now have defined it as get first. This is a unique separator for Linkedin. This is actually the keys to connecting into the founders within the Texas universe.
johnhill: If I were to reach out to you when we're Texters, expectation as you respond if you need something from her expectation as she responds, right
johnhill: super simple in its practice. You're already through the credibility lens by being in this room right.
johnhill: And so all I ask is, if people do reach out to you respond, cause I have that same expectation for every one of those people. Now we've had a ton of successes, and I'm gonna wrap on this.
johnhill: I think we've we're over 400 companies. Now that have been acquired. We've had 6 companies go public. I but what I love about this is, and I know these people
johnhill: fairly deep. Is, they represent both that transaction, the success story, and we have great success stories. Syngrid was the first company to go public out of an accelerator and we're acquired by twilio for 3.1 billion dollars right? One. That's on here. Pill pack.
johnhill: I became Amazon's online pharmacy. They were acquired by a billion Us. Dollars, by Amazon. Right? Those numbers huge 6 companies public here.
johnhill:  but it's the emotion connected to it that makes it super unique. And the people who are attached that emotion through those successful companies, and I saw service sungrid. I started on June second and 2,014 in Boulder so left Linkedin, which was an absolute rocket ship to go to this little company that had 30 something employees.
johnhill: That a bad economy would have folded immediately. Type thing right, and convinced my wife to do that, and then moved from San Francisco to Boston. She's amazing. So took that leave
johnhill: and II walked in. So I have this habit of not taking breaks, as you can tell by my travel schedule. II speaking on behalf of Linkedin on Friday afternoon in Chicago again, Chicago got on a plane went back to Mountain View for my going away party that evening with my friends at Linkedin Sunday morning flew to Denver ended up in Boulder started Monday morning. It at techs, so I had 36 h turn, or whatever.
johnhill: So I walk into the offices and back. Then the Texas accelerator and the kind of headquarters of Texas we're in the same room. It was an open room like this, and it was actually almost the same sizes. So imagine coming in that front door, and it's like complete chaos, like their white boards getting thrown around and like, you know, people yelling at each other, and they told me to come in at 11, cause that's when the action starts kind of thing.
johnhill: And II was coming from Linkedin, which was super buttoned up like they on boarded you as effectively as possible. It was like App, absolutely amazing to this. No onboarding and so I walk in the door, and about 5 min. In looking around, I have no idea what I'm supposed to do. This lady comes up to me and says, Hey you, John Hill. And I'm like, Yeah, I'm gonna get on board. And she guys said, Yeah, she goes, oh, good to hear we do this conference. I think you attended it last year called
johnhill: Founder Com. We're doing it in September this year in Austin, Texas. Here's a folder of all the information you're in charge of. It gives it to me and says, Good luck and walks away. And I it ended up being Nicolaros, who's like. Oh, gee! Amazing! Choose the Md. For the accelerator in Austin. So I go and sit down, and there's like there's this little desk in the chaos, and I sit down and I'm looking around. And I'm like, what do I just get myself into? Right? And I'm like certain a second guess that I just walk into, you know, this odd experience kinda thing.
johnhill: and I'll send this guy comes charging at me. He's got a bald head, and he's got a braided beard like straight out of the cast. Vikings.
johnhill: And I he's yelling. My name is like the boisterous voice. He's like John Hill, John Hill. I have no idea who he is. Right, and later on out he was a concert promoter, green day. I used to hang out at his house so like booming voice. And it was burly. And I learned later I used to be an Us. Army Air Force Rangers who used to jump out of helicopters and stuff like that, and he's charging me.
johnhill: and I'm like what is going on. And so we go. Are you, John Hill, are you, John Hill? And it runs up to my desk. I'm like, Yeah, I am John Hill.
johnhill: and he goes. I've been looking for you. He goes I wanna give you a check for $15,000. And I'm like, I love this textires place like this is amazing. I why do you wanna give me a check for $15,000, because I found out that you're in charge of Founder Con, and he probably knew before I did.
johnhill: And I he goes my name's Paul Ford. I'm the Vp of community for Sendgrid Texas meant so much to us that we wanna give back to fellow founders. That was my first experience with tech service. Right? Let's get back at first. Goes even broader with Sendgrid Isaac Saldana CEO at 14 years old, left his aunt and Uncle or as parents from Mexico, to live with his aunt and uncle in La First generation, University student built a company that was acquired 3.1 billion dollars.
johnhill: Isaac
johnhill: likes code. He likes to talk to code. He doesn't necessarily like to talk to people, but he's our biggest success story. So we throw him on stages all the time, and I so 2,019 post acquisition with Twilio literally to buy an island he's living in Oc. In la and we convince him to get on a plane and fly out to Trino Italy to share his entrepreneur, his founder story with the Italian entrepreneurial ecosystem, like he doesn't have to do that.
johnhill: but he does it because he wants to skip that give first pill pack, which I talked about. Tj. And Elliot post acquisition hosted the entire Boston Texas ecosystem founders, mentors, investors in their offices
johnhill: talk about what it was like to go through an acquisition process with Amazon
johnhill: like they were giving knowledge. They didn't have to do that, and they were way busy at that point. But they wanted to get back at first my favorite story, digital ocean, 2 Russian immigrants to the Us. Ben and Moiseieretsky Brothers. Tried to get into Texas several times, finally got in Boulder.
johnhill: We're with Nicole Leros in that program.
johnhill: They have the notoriety of being the only founders to get in a physical fist fight during program. Don't advocate any of you. Do that, please do not do that.
johnhill: But they are brothers. They reconciled. And they ended building the third largest cloud-based hosting service in the world behind Amazon Rackspace.
They raise 197 million dollars in the process. Now.
johnhill: Moisei as the company was catching up speed like they were a moonshot. It was flying. I went to his brother Ben and their other co-founder, Mitch Wayer and said, Hey, listen! I need to walk away from the company. For a bit. I I'm having a mental break. I can't do this. They developed a plan. He left the company for 6 months. When he was ready he came back into the company. And, by the way, Bill, in a company is a lonely, mentally taxing experience. You have people here who understand that. Lean into them as you go.
johnhill: His brother Mitch got him back into the company, and he rang the bell. In New York. Now Moisei is living in a penthouse, in Miami, overlooking Biscayne Bay now, probably for tax purposes, driving grand Prix cars literally sponsored. He's a super unique character. He's now spoken at 30 tech stars programs about the importance of mental health. He rips up, banded off again and again and again. He definitely doesn't have to do that.
johnhill: but he wants to get back. Give first. I give all of you permission to take out of this network as much as possible. Right now, anything you need take
johnhill: when you make it give back. Give first represent what this network has built. I wanna tell your stories next generation and I go back to how I started this, continue to build a network before you did it. So it's there when you do build a quality network. And I hope I proved, why not a quantity network? And most importantly, being an entrepreneur is like jumping off a plane and trying or jumping off Cliff trying to build a plane before it hits the ground. Kauffman Foundation, which research is the health of entrepreneurship in the Us. And elsewhere
johnhill: found the new start rate for companies in the Us. Was point 3 6% full year 2021, which means out of 100,000 people, only 360 started a company. You're already unicorn before you wanna be unicorns. Right? You're unique. Most people will never be you. But they wanna live vicariously through you. They wanna watch you jumping off that cliff, that plane hurtling to the ground right?
johnhill: There are a ton of net helpers out there, Texas being one of them that will extend run runway and bring the ground up. Continue to dream. Big Move had so many successes through here we can see the manifestation of how that happens through networks like this. I appreciate the time
johnhill: I've just given you, literally every energy I have on this. I'm gonna go crash for a little bit, and then reconvene with the team to set up a founder con but you don't do this kind of stuff unless you care about the people that you're working with. I appreciate every one of you. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to do this. I can't believe I've done it 250 times. Good luck to all of you, and catch up with me at founder. Thank you.
Alex Kennedy: Whoo!
johnhill: Thank you. Hi, I'll take your question. One question.
Aye.
johnhill: yeah, of course. So my uncle used to be the bartender. Jjs.
johnhill: that is crazy. We have talk, anyway. There's a 7 Hill thing. See you, my friends.